.. Notes on how to contribute to the FEniCS Project.

.. _contributing:

################
Getting in touch
################

This page describes how to get in contact to solve problems you might
encounter when using FEniCS. Help is available both from FEniCS
developers and other FEniCS users.

.. _help_answers:

Getting answers
===============

Questions and answers are handled by the `Launchpad Answers
<https://help.launchpad.net/Answers>`_ system.

`FEniCS answers <https://answers.launchpad.net/fenics>`_ is the place
for general FEniCS questions and `DOLFIN answers
<https://answers.launchpad.net/dolfin>`_ is the place for questions
regarding the FEniCS user interface DOLFIN.

`Launchpad pages <launchpad_pages.html>`_ contains a collection of
links to the answer pages for all FEniCS components.

Naturally, the FEniCS developers are in a good position to answer
these questions, but as the developers often are busy writing code (or
answering other questions), any help from you is greatly appreciated.
Perhaps you might know the answer to a question asked by another user?
To be notified of new questions, join the `FEniCS
<https://launchpad.net/~fenics>`_ and the `DOLFIN
<https://launchpad.net/~dolfin>`_ teams on Launchpad.

.. _help_bugs:

Reporting bugs
==============

FEniCS software is under active development. As a consequence, bugs
are likely to occur from time to time. In the event that you encounter
a bug, please file a bug report using the Launchpad system for
tracking `Bugs <https://help.launchpad.net/Bugs>`_.  Please include
the most simple code example that exposes the bug. Let's say that
again: *please include the most simple code example that exposes the
bug*. Typically, 10-20 lines of code should suffice. The simpler the
example, the more likely someone will have the time to identify and
fix the bug.

For reporting bugs in the FEniCS user interface DOLFIN, use `DOLFIN
bugs <https://bugs.launchpad.net/dolfin>`_.

`Launchpad pages <launchpad_pages.html>`_ contains a collection of
links to the bug tracking pages for all FEniCS components.

Mailing lists
=============

.. _help_mailinglists:

Users are also welcome to take part in discussions on the FEniCS
mailing lists, but specific questions are better directed to the
relevant `Answer page <https://help.launchpad.net/Answers>`_ as
explained above.

We try to keep a friendly tone on our mailing lists, but sometimes
questions can only be settled by a heated debate. Don't be afraid to
step in and state your opinion!

The `FEniCS mailing list <mailto:fenics@lists.launchpad.net>`_ is the
place for general discussions regarding the FEniCS Project and the
`DOLFIN mailing list <mailto:dolfin@lists.launchpad.net>`_ is the
place for discussions regarding the FEniCS user interface DOLFIN.

`Launchpad pages <launchpad_pages.html>`_ contains a collection of
links to the mailing lists for all FEniCS components.

Contributing
============

We encourage users to take active part in developing and documenting
FEniCS. As an active developer, it is easy to influence the direction
and focus of the project. The step from user to developer is just a
patch away! For information about how to contribute code to the FEniCS
Project, visit the page :ref:`developers`.
