.. _support:

#######
Support
#######

This page describes how to get in contact to solve problems you might
encounter when using FEniCS. Help is available both from FEniCS
developers and other FEniCS users.

.. _help_answers:

Getting answers
===============

Do you wonder about how something works, whether some feature is
supported or why you are getting an error? Feel free to ask through
the Launchpad Answers system: `FEniCS answers
<https://answers.launchpad.net/fenics>`_ is the place for general
FEniCS questions and `DOLFIN answers
<https://answers.launchpad.net/dolfin>`_ is the place for questions
regarding the FEniCS user interface DOLFIN. :ref:`launchpad_pages`
contains a collection of links to the answer pages for all FEniCS
components.

Naturally, the FEniCS developers are in a good position to answer
these questions, but as the developers often are busy writing code (or
answering other questions), any help from you is greatly appreciated.
Perhaps you might know the answer to a question asked by another user?
To be notified of new questions, join the `FEniCS
<https://launchpad.net/~fenics>`_ and the `DOLFIN
<https://launchpad.net/~dolfin>`_ teams on Launchpad.


.. _getting_answers_checklist:

Checklist when asking a question
--------------------------------

We want to help you; by making sure that you provide us with enough
information, you are more likely to get the answer you are looking
for. So, first

    please check whether someone has asked the same question before by
    searching the questions/answers.

If you have encountered an error or a problem that you can't figure
out, please make sure to include the following in your description of
the problem:

#. A *minimal, running code example* that reproduces the error.

#. The error message.

#. The *version* of the FEniCS component you are using.

By a minimal, running code example, we really mean **minimal** and we
really mean **running**. Try to simplify your program as much as you
can. (Surprisingly often, 10-20 lines of code will suffice.) The
simpler the example, the more likely someone will have the time to
identify and/or help fix the problem.

.. _help_bugs:

Reporting bugs
==============

FEniCS software is under active development. As a consequence, bugs
are likely to occur from time to time. In the event that you encounter
a bug, please file a bug report using the Launchpad bug tracking
system. In particular, for reporting bugs in DOLFIN, use `DOLFIN bugs
<https://bugs.launchpad.net/dolfin>`_. :ref:`launchpad_pages` contains
a collection of links to the bug tracking pages for all FEniCS
components.

When reporting a bug, the same :ref:`guidelines as for asking
questions <getting_answers_checklist>` apply.


Mailing lists
=============

.. _help_mailinglists:

Users are also welcome to take part in discussions on the FEniCS
mailing lists, but specific questions are better directed to the
relevant `Answer page <https://help.launchpad.net/Answers>`_ as
:ref:`explained above <help_answers>`.

We try to keep a friendly tone on our mailing lists, but sometimes
questions can only be settled by a heated debate. Don't be afraid to
step in and state your opinion!

The `FEniCS mailing list <mailto:fenics@lists.launchpad.net>`_ is the
place for general discussions regarding the FEniCS Project and the
`DOLFIN mailing list <mailto:dolfin@lists.launchpad.net>`_ is the
place for discussions regarding the FEniCS user interface DOLFIN.

:ref:`launchpad_pages` contains a collection of links to the mailing
lists for all FEniCS components.

Contributing
============

We encourage users to take active part in developing and documenting
FEniCS. As an active developer, it is easy to influence the direction
and focus of the project. The step from user to developer is just a
patch away! For information about how to contribute code to the FEniCS
Project, visit the page :ref:`developers`.

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    launchpad_pages
