.. General introduction to the FEniCS Project.

.. _About:

########################
About the FEniCS Project
########################

The FEniCS Project is a collaborative project on automating aspects of
scientific computing. Users and developers come from universities and
research institutes from around the world.

************
Contributors
************



**********
Components
**********

FEniCS is organized as a collection of interoperable components that
together form the FEniCS Project. These components include the
problem-solving environment :ref:`DOLFIN <about_components_dolfin>`,
the form compiler :ref:`FFC <about_components_ffc>`, the finite
element tabulator :ref:`FIAT <about_components_fiat>`, the
just-in-time compiler :ref:`Instant <about_components_instant>`, the
code generation interface :ref:`UFC <about_components_ufc>`, the form
lanuage :ref:`UFL <about_components_ufl>` and a range of
:ref:`additional components <about_components_additional>` and
:ref:`applications <about_components_applications>`.

An full overview of the list of FEniCS components is presented
:ref:`here <about_components>`.

*******
License
*******

All FEniCS :ref:`core components <about_components_core>` are licensed
on the `GNU LGPL <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html>`__ as
published by the `Free Software Foundation <http://www.fsf.org>`__,
either version 3 of the license, or (at your option) any later
version.

All other FEniCS components are licensed under either the `GNU GPL
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>`__ or the `GNU LGPL
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html>`__, either version 3 of the
license, or (at your option) any later version.

Authors and institutions have given their consent to licensing under
these terms `here <http://www.fenicsproject.org/pub/copyright>`__.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   components
