.. Notes on how to contribute to the FEniCS Project.

.. _contributing:

############
Getting Help
############

Help is available both from FEniCS developers and other FEniCS users.
This page describes how to get in contact to solve problems you might
encounter when using FEniCS.

Getting answers
===============

.. _help_anwers:

Questions and answers are handled by the `Launchpad Answers
<https://help.launchpad.net/Answers>`_ system.

`FEniCS answers <https://answers.launchpad.net/fenics>`_ is the place
for general FEniCS questions and `DOLFIN answers
<https://answers.launchpad.net/dolfin>`_ is the place for questions
regarding the FEniCS user interface DOLFIN.

`Launchpad pages <launchpad_pages.html>`_ contains a collection of
links to the answer pages for all FEniCS components.

Naturally, the FEniCS developers are in a good position to answer
these questions, but as the developers often are busy writing code (or
answering other questions), any help from you is greatly appreciated.
Perhaps you might know the answer to a question asked by another user?
To be notified of new questions, join the `FEniCS
<https://launchpad.net/~fenics>`_ and the `DOLFIN
<https://launchpad.net/~dolfin>`_ teams on Launchpad.

Reporting bugs
==============

.. _help_bugs:

FEniCS software is under active development. As a consequence, bugs
are likely to occur from time to time. In the event that you encounter
a bug, please file a bug report using the Launchpad system for
tracking `Bugs <https://help.launchpad.net/Bugs>`_.  Please include
the most simple code example that exposes the bug. Let's say that
again: *Please include the most simple code example that exposes the
bug*. No one will want to dig through your application code to find
the bug!

`FEniCS bugs <https://bugs.launchpad.net/fenics>`_ is the place for
reporting general FEniCS bugs and `DOLFIN bugs
<https://bugs.launchpad.net/dolfin>`_ is the place for reporting bugs
in the FEniCS user interface DOLFIN.

`Launchpad pages <launchpad_pages.html>`_ contains a collection of
links to the bug tracking pages for all FEniCS components.

Getting in touch
================

.. _help_mailinglists:

Users are also welcome to take part in discussions on the FEniCS
mailing lists, but specific questions are better directed to the
relevant `Answer page <https://help.launchpad.net/Answers>`_ as
explained above.

We try to keep a friendly tone on our mailing lists, but sometimes
questions can only be settled by a heated debate. Don't be afraid to
step in and state your opinion!

The `FEniCS mailing list <mailto:fenics@lists.launchpad.net>`_ is the
place for general discussions regarding the FEniCS Project and the
`DOLFIN mailing list <mailto:dolfin@lists.launchpad.net>`_ is the
place for discussions regarding the FEniCS user interface DOLFIN.

`Launchpad pages <launchpad_pages.html>`_ contains a collection of
links to the mailing lists for all FEniCS components.

Contributing
============

We encourage users to take active part in developing and documenting
FEniCS. As an active developer, it is easy to influence the direction
and focus of the project. The step from user to developer is just a
patch away!
